you now know a bunch about machine
learning in this video I'd like to teach
you a programming language octave in
which you be able to very quickly
implement the learning algorithms we've
seen already and the learning algorithms
we'll see later in this course in the
past I've tried to teach machine
learning using a live variety of
different programming languages
including C pluses Java Python numpy R
and also octave and what I found is that
students were able to learn the most
productively learned most quickly and
prototype your algorithms most quickly
using a relatively high level language
like octave in fact um what I often see
in Silicon Valley is that if even if you
need to build if you want to build a
large-scale deployment of a learning
algorithm what people will often do is
prototype in the language like octave
which is a great prototyping language
you can sort of get your learning
algorithms working quickly and then only
if you need to very large scale
deployment of it only then spend your
time re-implementing the algorithms in
C++ or Java or some other language like
that because one of the lessons we've
learned is that programmer time or
developer time that is your time your
the machine learning Swiss time is
incredibly valuable and if you can get
your learning Urban's to work more
quickly an octave then overall you have
a huge time savings by first developing
the algorithms in octave and then
implementing and like maybe C versus
Java only after we have the ideas
working the most common prototyping
languages I see people use for machine
learning are octave MATLAB Python numpy
and our octave is nice since this free
open source and MATLAB works well too
but it's expensive for too many people
but if you have access to coffee in
MATLAB you can also use matter for this
class if you know Python numpy or if you
know R I do see some people use it but
what I see is that people usually end up
developing somewhat more slowly in you
know these languages because the Python
numpy syntax is just slightly clunkier
than the octave syntax and so because of
that and because we're releasing starter
code and octave
I strongly recommend that you not try to
do the toning exercises in this class in
the umpire are but that I do recommend
that you instead do they're probably
exercises for this cause in octave
instead what I'm going to do in this
video is go through a list of commands
and very fairly quickly and the goal is
to quickly show you the range of
commands and the range of things you can
do in octave the course website will
have a transcript of everything I do and
so after watching this video you can
refer to the to the transcript I posted
on the course website when you want to
find a command completely whatever
recommend you do is first watch the
tutorial videos and after watching you
know to the end then install octave on
your computer and finally it goes to the
course website download the transcript
of the things you see in the session and
type in whatever commands seem
interesting to you in two octaves of
running on your own computer so that you
can see it work for yourself and what's
that let's get started here's my Windows
desktop and I'm gonna start up octave
and I'm now in octave and there's my
octave prompt let me first show you the
elementary operations you can do an
octave so you type in 5 + 6 that gives
you the answer of 11 z -2 5 x 8 1 / 2 2
to the power of 6 is 64 so does the
elementary math operations you can also
do logical operations so one equals two
this evaluates to false the percent come
on here is means a comment so one equals
two evaluates to false which is
represented by zero one not equals to
two this is true so that returns one
note that the not equal sign is this
toter equals symbol and not bang equals
which is what some other programming
languages use let's see logic operations
1 & 0 use a double ampersand sign to
denote the logical end and that
Falls one all zero is the or operation
and that evaluates the true and I can X
all one and 0 and that evaluates the one
this thing over on the left is octane 3
240 X equal 11 this is the default
octave prompt it shows the what
variation an octave and so on if you
don't want that problem this is somewhat
cryptic come on PS quote greater greater
than and so on that you can use to
change the prompt and I guess this
quoted string in the middle your quote
greater than greater than space that's
what I prefer my octave prompt to look
like so if I hit enter
oops excuse me like so ps1 like so now
my octave prompt has changed to their
greater than greater than sign which you
know looks quite a bit better
next let's talk about octave variables I
can take the variable a and assign it to
3 and hit enter and now is equal to me
you want to assign a variable but you
don't want to print out the result if
you put a semicolon the semicolon
suppresses the print the print outputs
let me do that until it doesn't print
anything whereas a equals 3 you know
makes it printed out whereas a equals 3
semicolon doesn't print anything I can
do string assignment equals hi now if I
just enter be a prince of the variable B
so B is the string hi C equals 3 grades
in equal 1 so now C evaluates to true if
you want to print out or display a
variable here's how you go about it let
me set a equals pi and if I want to
print a and just type a like so no
printed out for more complex printing
there's also the disc command which
stands with this place when I display a
just prints out a like so you can also
display the strings so this is printf
two decimals
percent 0.2 F comma a like so and this
will print out the string two decimals :
3.14 this is kind of a old style C
syntax for those of you that have
permanent C before this is essentially
the syntax you use to print string so
the printf generates a spirit generates
a string that is this you know two
decimals 3.14 string this percent 0.2 f
means substitute a into here sharing it
with you know two digits after the
decimal point and this takes the string
that's generated by this printf command
s printf well the string printf come on
and this actually displays a string and
it's really another example this printf
6 decimals percent 0.6 F comma a and
this should print PI with 6 decimal to 6
decimal places finally I was displaying
a like 7 love like this you can see
they're they're useful shortcuts you
type format long it causes strings to by
default be its way to a lot more decimal
places and format short is a command
that we stores the default of just
printing a small number of digits ok
that's how you work with variables now
let's look at vectors and matrices let's
say I want to assign me a to a matrix
I'm sure in example 1 2 semicolon 3 4
semicolon 5 6 this generates a 3 by 2
matrix a whose first row as 1 2 second
row 3 for the third row is 5 6 what the
semicolon does is essentially say go to
the next row of the matrix there are
other ways to type the same type equals
1 2 semicolon 3 4 semicolon 5 6 like so
and that's another equivalent way of
assigning a to be the values of this 3
by 2 matrix
similarly you can assign vectors so V
equals one two three this is actually a
row vector or this is a three by one
vector right there so that's why vectors
excuse me not this is on a one by three
matrix right not to me by one if I want
to assign this to a column vector what I
would do is instead to V equals one
semicolon to semicolon three and this
will give me a three by one instead of 1
by 3 vector so this is a column vector
here's some more useful notation I can
all set V equals 1 and : 0.1 : to what
this does is it sets V to the bunch of
elements that start from 1 and
increments in steps of 0.1 until you get
up to 2 so if I do this V is going to be
this you know row vector oh this is a
what 1 by 11 matrix already that's 1.1
1.1 1.2 1.3 and so on until we get up to
2 now um and I can also set B equals 1 :
6 and that's set to be to be you know
these numbers 1 through 6 okay now
here's some other way to generate a
matrices once 2 by 3 there's a command
that generates a matrix that is a two by
three matrix that is the matrix of all
ones so if I set C equals 2 times 1 is 2
by 3 this generates a 2 by 3 matrix does
all tubes and this is you can think of
it as a shorter way of writing this and
C equals 2 to 2 semicolon 2 to 2 which
will also give you the same result let's
say W equals 1 1 by 3 so this is going
to be a row vector or a row of 3 runs
and similarly you can also set W equals
rows one by three and this generates a
matrix one by three matrix of all zeros
just a couple more ways to generate
matrices if I do W equals R and 1 by 3
this gives me a 1 by 3 matrix of all
random numbers if I do R and 3 by 3 this
gives me a 3 by 3 matrix of all random
numbers drawn from the uniform
distribution between 0 & 1 so every time
I do this I get a different set of
random numbers drawn uniformly between 0
& 1 for those of you that know whether
Gaussian random variable and so for
those who than there was a normal and
the variable is you can also set down
equals R and N 1 by 3 and so these are
going to be three values drawn from a
Gaussian distribution with mean 0 and
variance and standard deviation equal to
1 and you can set more complex things
like W equals minus 6 plus square root
10 times let's say R and and one by
10,000 and I'm gonna put a semicolon at
the end because I don't really want this
printed out this is going to be a what
well it was going to be a vector with a
hundred thousand 10,000 elements so well
okay you know what let's let's print it
out so this will generate a matrix like
this right with 10,000 elements so
that's what W is and if I now plot a
histogram of W what the his command I
can now and I'll type in his command it
takes a couple seconds to bring this up
but this is a histogram of my random
variable for W there was minus 6 plus 3
over 10 times this Gaussian random
variable and I can plot a histogram with
more buckets with more bins will say 50
bins and this is my histogram of a
Gaussian with mean minus 6 because I
have a minus 6 there plus square root 10
times
so the dr variance or ritas of this
Gaussian random variable was 10 on the
standard deviation this square root of
10 which is about what 3.1 finally one
special command for generated matrix
which is the I command
so I stands for this may be a pun on the
word identity but survived said I for
this is the 4 by 4 identity matrix I
said I enclose I for this gives me a 4
by 4 identity matrix and I because I v
i6 that gives me a 6 by 6 identity
matrix and I 3 is the 3 by 3 identity
matrix lastly to wrap up this video as
one more useful command which is the
help command so you can type help I and
this brings up the help function for the
identity matrix hit Q to quit and you
can also type help Rand brings up
documentation for the rand or the random
number generation function or even
though help-help which shows you you
know hope on the hope function
so those are the basic operations in
octave oh and with this you should be
able to generate a few matrices multiply
add things and and use the basic
operations in octave in the next video
I'd like to start talking about more
sophisticated commands and how to move
data around and start to process data in
octave